Group Project - Entrepreneurial Thinking

Ideas: HPL
- App or program to sort library collection in a more understandable way (Young Adults don’t visit libraries because they don’t understand the system)

Introduction: Describe the motivation for the application. What is the user or customer need and why does it exist? What pains do your users currently experience? What are your target users like? (worth 5 points)

Statement of functionality: Describe the capabilities of your application. What features does it offer? What is the scope? What are the functional and nonfunctional requirements? Be as detailed as you can, though you do not need to produce a formal requirements document

Describe at least three use cases (examples)for your application, at a high level

Describe the look and feel of the application.You are encouraged to create multiple images to show different screens or functions of the application. You are also encouraged to augment your visual aids with written descriptions. Describe how each of the use cases would work in your application. If relevant, describe the application or information architecture and take care to mention required software or tools to develop the application. You can use a mockup or prototyping tool (like https://moqups.com/); a general drawing tool like Powerpoint, Omnigraffle, Keynote, or others. (worth 5 points) 

Statement on sustainability: Assess your application from the perspective of one of the strategic frameworks discussed in this class. What is the main value of the application from the perspective of the user or organization who would finance its development? Consider the costs to develop the application and the sources of funds for the application and how you would justify constructing this application to key stakeholders (e.g. library directors, government officials, the public, investors) (worth 5 points)

Business strategies are defined as the “coordinated set of actions used to meet the business goals and objective” (Pearlson, Saunders, Galletta, 2016. pp. 21) thus the selected business strategy are the steps needed to achieve creating the application. While deciding which strategic framework to use, we needed to think about where the app will be applied (public libraries) and who our customers will be (young adults ages 12 to 25). We went with a focused strategy in developing our application because we are already part of an organization that has a local competitive advantage – a municipal public library – and wanted to develop an application that is unique but cost effective for our customers while continuing to show the advantages of having easy access to public libraries both in physical and electronic formats. We also wanted to continue being innovation leaders in the library world. By allowing local young adults to view the library’s catalogue and find a book that is addressed to their preferences and knowing the location before they visit to the library allows them to gain confidence and an understanding of how libraries organize their books. 
	We also needed to decide if the application will be made in-house or will we outsource it. However, before we decide where the application will be made, we need to think about where the finances will come from. We agreed that our app will be free to our customers because most of them will not have a way to pay for the service. This means that we need to find a way to finance the project. One option is to submit a grant application to the Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA) which offers more than $195,000 yearly for the development of young adult library programs (Young Adult Library Services Association, 2019). Another funding source will be submitting grant applications to our local municipal and provincial government; another option is to but the development of the app into the next fiscal year’s budget because library is already part of the municipal government and counsel might be willing to pass founding for the app that way. A final option is to ask for donation from local business and families; donators will be giving the option to have their name listed on the app. Since we currently do not have a set budget, it would be unwise for us to outsource the development of the application which means the development will occur in-house by the library and municipality’s IT staff. This also makes sense because we, the librarians, know what books are in our library and how there are organized.       
	By providing funding for the development of this app, we expect an increase in young adult literacy rates and young adult participation within the community. Historically. increase in literacy rates have helped reduce inequalities within the United States of America; between 1870 to 1979, the United States saw an increase in literacy rates which corresponded with the closing of the illiterate race gap (Roser, & Ortiz-Ospina. 2018).  Thus, by allowing our young adults a way to quickly view and find our library’s catalogue, the literacy rates for our municipality will continue to remain high.
